# AI Emails

An AI emailing system.

# Developing

To spin up a live system with hot reloading, run:

```sh
npm start
```

This command also starts a develompent server for testing interactions with the backend. All of the mock backend code lives in the `server` folder located in the root of this repository.

## Issue Finding

### Semantics

Our email finding system works by producing `tags` for various issues that a student might face. The structure of a tag looks like this:

```json
{
  "id": 3,
  "name": "some_id",
  "subject": "Some Nice Presentation.",
  "template": "This is a description that will help us create an email."
}
```

Note that in the presentation layer of the application, there exists code which modifies `subject` to show extra information computed at runtime.

For more information about how our system generates tags, see the `code walkthrough` below.

### Code Walkthrough

All of the business logic for detecting issues in the student data lives in the `src/help-system` directory. The following information may prove useful if you wish to change that logic:

- To edit the templates the system uses as the basis for tags, modify the file in `server/examples/templates.json`. That data will likely go in the database.
- To change how the system creates tags, considing adding a new function to either `src/help-system/tagReducers.ts`.
- To run postprocessing functions on the tags the system comes up with, consider adding a new function to `src/help-system/tagPostProcessors.ts`.
- To modify the way that the functions in those files ultimately get composed together, modify `src/help-system/studentRanker.ts`. **Unless there is a bug, you should not need to modify this file.**

For more information about the shape of the data, consult the type definitions in `src/help-system/CriticStructure.ts` and `src/help-system/tagStructure.ts`. The former file adds describes the types of information obtained from the API; the later file describes the types of information our system computes.

To modify the logic used for writing emails, one can edit `src/views/EmailCore.tsx` and `src/views/useStudents.tsx` at will. Those files contain the logic used when actually building text and saving it to local storage.

## Backend Interactions

Our email system currently makes 6 separate GET requests to the following endpoints stored in the following environment variables:

```
REACT_APP_SUBMISSION_DATA
REACT_APP_AUTHORS
REACT_APP_TEMPLATES_URL
REACT_APP_GET_EMAILS_URL
```

These endpoints can be configured by changing the `.env` file in the root of this repository. To see the structure expected from each endpoint, check out the file `api.json` in the root of this repository and the types described above.

To change the actual fetching code, check out the function `fetchEmailStatistics` in `src/views/EmailGateway.tsx`; that file defines the boundary between the API and the rest of the interface.

In addition, our email system allows you to make some `POST` and `PUT` requests at the following endpoints:

```
REACT_APP_POST_EMAILS_URL
REACT_APP_PUT_TEMPLATES_URL
```

Those send `FormData` that the Java backend should be able to parse. For development purposes, there exists a small development server that runs when one invokes `npm start` from the command line.

## Known Issues

- Right now, some of the `react-scripts` dependencies have security vulnerabilities. [This GitHub issue contains more details.](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/issues/10929)
  - At some point in the future, updating `react-scripts` will probably fix this problem.
- If you travel back in time, the emails automatically generated by our system reflect the most recent information it has instead of the information available back then.
- Tags are currently sent to the backend via colon delimited strings (e.g., `submission_gap:exercise_gap`).

## Testing

Run:

```sh
npm test
```

## Deployment

Run:

```sh
npm run build
```

And place the static files generated into the directory of your choice.
